CSE 111 Proposal for a Student Chosen Program

    (This is a proposal. All proposals are written with our best
    knowledge at the beginning of a project. As we progress from the
    beginning to the end of a project, we gain more knowledge, and we
    change some of our proposed ideas. This is part of completing any
    project and is fine.  However, we still must write a proposal so
    that our teachers or supervisors know what we intend to do. Please
    answer each of the following questions to the best of your
    knowledge.)

1. What is the title of your program? Echoloco

2. What real-world problem will your program address or help to solve?
    I am interested in building a program to help blind people navigate.
    There are a multitude of sensors and technologies that can help blind people
    to navigate. After further research, however, I have learned that there are two problems,
    one is that the sensors and technologies often require a lot of processing/compute power and
    it is difficult to make them portable. Second, blind people have a lot of things that their brain
    has to process, so if a product or device is complicated or requires them to process a 
    lot more information quickly, it can actually hamper their ability to navigate objects 
    and obstacles, rather than help them. Technology that is easy to use and simple to understand
    is often more effective. 
    
    This project has several parts, the first is to use an ultrasonic sensor with a raspberry pi zero 2 w, that emits sound waves 
    outside of the range of human hearing. The sensor sends out ultrasonic sound waves and when the 
    waves are reflected off an object and back to the sensor we can determine the distance to that object. 
    The software program then uses that distance as an input. As the distance to an object decreases
    the program will emit a tone (sine wave). At a distance of 144 inches (12ft) to the object, the tone
    will be once and the volume will be fairly low. As the individual gets closer to the/an object the 
    tone will be more frequent and repeat. As the distance to the object continues to decrease, 
    the tone will become more frequent and each tone will be repeated closer together, much like a car backing 
    up and the beeping that you hear as the car gets closer to an object.
    The adjustment in tone volume and repetition will occur at the following increments hopefully: 
    144" (12ft)
    108" (9ft)
    72" (6ft)
    36" (3ft)
    24" (2ft)
    12" (1ft)
    6"(.5ft).
    
    This project will of course not work perfectly, because of the doppler effect. If an transducer emits a frequency and that
    transducer is moving then, when the soundwaves hit the target object and are reflected back the frequency may not match, 
    thus the sensor may not detect accurately if the sensor is not stationary. Bats are able compensate for the doppler effect by
    manipulating the frequency as they move so that it changes and the sound wave reflected back to them will then match the frequency
    they are attuned to hear. In this project it will likely be too complicated to resolve that issue as the frequency emitted
    would have to change to compensate for the doppler effect so that the echo received matches the frequency emitted.
    Thus, I am simply going to attempt the project as indicated above. If it does not work correctly when moving, that can
    be addressed at another time, but I believe that would be outside the scope of this class and the capabilities in the 
    remaining time frame. 
    

3. What will you learn from developing this program? 
    How to generate audio and detect and analyze it using python and python libraries. 
    How to use modules and libraries I have not yet used.

4. What Python modules will your program use?
    math (possibly), numpy and sounddevice, possibly more.

    (Some examples are: csv, datetime, functools, matplotlib, math,
    pandas, pytest, random, requests, and tkinter.)

5. Will you separate your Python program into functions that each
    perform a single task?
    Yes, I will be writing individual functions.
    The program will need to send out audio in real-time and then receive the returned signal to interpret.

    (Remember that the most reusable functions don't get user input and
    don't print results but instead have parameters and return a result.
    Functions that get user input and print results are important and do
    useful work but are not easily reusable.)

    (Remember also that it's hard to test functions that get user input
    and print results. It's easy to test functions that don't get user
    input and don't print results but instead have parameters and return
    a result. Therefore, you should write most of your program functions
    to have parameters and return a result.)

6. Will you write test functions to test at least two of your program
    functions?
    I plan on trying to. I am not sure how or what those will look like. 

